MSC4311: Ensuring the create event is available on invites (#4311)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/4311-stripped-state-create-event.md

Author: Implementation requirements:

* [ ] Server (returning stripped state)
* [ ] Server (receiving stripped state)
* [ ] Client (receiving stripped state)

Reviewer: Meowlnir (client/bot replacing room ID parsing with creator parsing in invite antispam): https://github.com/maunium/meowlnir/commit/eeccd4aef99d53ceed767f29c3bd00c65211183d

Author: This MSC now requires all stripped state events to be PDUs over federation. I believe https://github.com/element-hq/synapse/pull/18822 and https://github.com/matrix-org/complement/pull/796 demonstrate it's not impossible, even if the code itself is bad.

> # MSC4311: Ensuring the create event is available on invites and knocks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# MSC4311: Ensuring the create event is available on invites
```

> Historically, when processing an invite or knock, safety tooling would parse the room ID despite
> [being opaque](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/appendices/#room-ids) to determine the server which
> originally created the room. If that server was considered abusive, the incoming invite or outbound
> knock may be rejected or blocked early by the tooling. This approach is preferred because the user
> sending the invite may not be on the same server as the user who created the room, though both sender
> and creator are checked by safety tooling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Historically, when processing an incoming invite or outgoing knock, safety tooling would parse the room ID despite
[being opaque](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/appendices/#room-ids), to determine the server which
originally created the room. If that server was considered abusive, the invite or 
knock may be rejected or blocked early by the tooling. Note that checking the domain of the
sender of an invite is inadequate, because the sender may not be on the same server as the
user who created the room.
```

With [MSC4291](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4291), room IDs lose their
domain component. This, combined with [Stripped State](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#stripped-state)
recommending rather than requiring the `m.room.create` event, makes the above check harder if not
impossible when the create event is missing or incomplete, as the room ID cannot be confirmed in
MSC4291+ room versions.

> This MSC shifts the `m.room.create` event to a *required* stripped state event, and imposes validation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To mitigate the problem in the case of invites,
this MSC shifts the `m.room.create` event to a *required* stripped state event, and imposes validation
```

## Alternatives

This proposal fills a potential gap in information created by MSC4291, making the alternatives roughly
equivalent to "don't do this". A possible alternative is in the shape of [MSC4329](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4329)
where the `/invite` endpoint changes, however the changes are roughly the same as this proposal's.

## Security considerations

Security considerations are made throughout, especially around validating the events included.

## Unstable prefix

This proposal does not require an unstable prefix as the behaviour can be accomplished without overly
affecting client or server implementations.

## Migration

Mentioned above, existing server implementations SHOULD warn rather than fail on invites which don't
have complete PDUs inside `invite_room_state` until their local ecosystem adoption allows for the
full set of validation to be applied. If PDUs are complete, but for a different room, the invite MUST
still fail per the validation above.

This proposal suggests that servers wait no longer than 3 months (or about 1 full spec release cycle)

> after this proposal is released to enforce the full validation.

Author: I assume this thread is for the `This changes an API in a backwards incompatible manner` concern. 

I'm failing to see the "incompatible" part of the changes. Servers already do apply validation to invites leading to rejections, so it should be fine to ask that servers add more validation. It's also acceptable to send *more* data than requested on any endpoint.

I don't think bumping the endpoint version will help. https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4329 is an example of doing that, and it's no less awful than the changes here.

> after this proposal is released to enforce the full validation.

Author: We've spent the last week or so discussing this internally amongst the SCT. There are a variety of options available to us, including bumping endpoint versions, though the ultimately suggested change is:

Servers MAY validate for room versions 1 through 11 and SHOULD validate for 12 and higher. A future MSC may introduce a new endpoint which changes it to MUST (potentially regardless of room version).

the room ID matches the invite (or knock, though it's already sent by the time validation would happen).

Specifically, including the `m.room.create` event as a full PDU allows servers to calculate the room
ID by hashing the event in MSC4291+ room versions. For other room versions (1 through 11), the server
can at most compare the `room_id` field of the create event with the invite/knock membership event.

If any of the events are not a PDU, not for the room ID specified, or fail [signature checks](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#validating-hashes-and-signatures-on-received-events),
or the `m.room.create` event is missing, the receiving server MAY respond to invites with a `400 M_MISSING_PARAM`
standard Matrix error (new to the endpoint). For invites to room version 12+ rooms, servers SHOULD
rather than MAY respond to such requests with `400 M_MISSING_PARAM`. For knocks, the server SHOULD remove any events from
`knock_room_state` which fail the same validation check before passing the details along to clients.
Ideally, the server would be able to prevent the knock from happening, though by the time the server

> can see the `knock_room_state`, the knock has already happened.

Reviewer 3: Why are knocks handled differently than invites?

Specifically: "For knocks, the server SHOULD remove any events from `knock_room_state` [...] before passing the details along to clients."

Versus invites: "If any of the events are [found invalid] [reject]" (all or nothing)

Author: (opening spec clarification issues is best after an MSC is merged - comments can and do go missing, and rarely lead to the spec itself being improved)

---

The desirable property is preventing the action from ever happening, which is only possible on invites. Invites can have their events prevented by refusing to sign the event. Knocks have a different series of endpoints which leads to the knock event already being sent by the time `knock_room_state` has happened, so the MSC forfeits the ability to prevent the event and instead forces removal of invalid data to get as close as possible to the desirable property.

# MSC4311: Ensuring the create event is available on invites and knocks

Historically, when processing an invite or knock, safety tooling would parse the room ID despite
[being opaque](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/appendices/#room-ids) to determine the server which
originally created the room. If that server was considered abusive, the incoming invite or outbound

> knock may be rejected or blocked early by the tooling. This approach is preferred because the user

Reviewer 2: made a few light suggestions

affecting client or server implementations.

## Migration

*This section is for server implementations to follow upon release of room version 12. It is not
intended to enter the spec in any way.*

Room version 12 contains MSC4291 and is expected to be used in production prior to this proposal
becoming stable itself. To account for this, for 1 spec release cycle, servers are encouraged to
warn rather than fail on invites which don't have a complete `m.room.create` PDU in the `invite_room_state`.
If the PDU is complete, but for a different room, the invite should still fail per the proposal text
above.

This translates to a timeline anywhere between 2 and 6 months, depending on ecosystem rollout. An
example *possible* release schedule is:

1. August 2025 - Matrix 1.16 is released with Room Version 12 and this proposal; servers log warnings
   about invites missing complete `m.room.create` PDUs.
2. October 2025 - Matrix 1.17 is released; servers stop using warnings and instead fully apply the
   validation logic of this proposal, causing invites missing full create event PDUs to fail.

Servers are encouraged to make the switch to full validation early if their ecosystem conditions

> allow. For example, if logged warnings are sufficiently low or of insignicant consequence.

Reviewer 2: Given most of the MSC no longer talks about room v12, the heavy emphasis in v12 here feels out of place

Author: 249dec303c14e3bb1ddc4046d2c2a5d409f2603d

# MSC4311: Ensuring the create event is available on invites and knocks

Historically, when processing an invite or knock, safety tooling would parse the room ID despite
[being opaque](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/appendices/#room-ids) to determine the server which
originally created the room. If that server was considered abusive, the incoming invite or outbound
knock may be rejected or blocked early by the tooling. This approach is preferred because the user
sending the invite may not be on the same server as the user who created the room, but is often still

> checked by safety tooling.

Author: 5ac4656775f357fd5ceb4fb92e16aa19f0baaab9

With [MSC4291](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4291), room IDs lose their
domain component. This, combined with [Stripped State](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#stripped-state)
recommending rather than requiring the `m.room.create` event, makes the above check harder if not
impossible in some cases.

This MSC shifts the `m.room.create` event to a *required* stripped state event, and imposes validation
to ensure the event matches the room. To support the new validation, the `m.room.create` event must
be formatted as a full PDU in the stripped state of [invites](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#put_matrixfederationv1inviteroomideventid)

> and [knocks](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#get_matrixfederationv1make_knockroomiduserid)

Author: 5ac4656775f357fd5ceb4fb92e16aa19f0baaab9

over federation. Together, these changes allow safety tooling (and servers) to better validate invites

> in particular.

Author: The intro is generally less precise than the proposal text - it's a preview of the changes, not duplicate.

I believe this is addressed in the proposal.

## Proposal

On the Client-Server API, `m.room.create` MUST be provided in [Stripped State](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#stripped-state),
where available. No other changes are proposed to the Client-Server API.

Over federation, for room versions affected by [MSC4291](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4291),
the `m.room.create` event MUST be included in [`invite_room_state`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#put_matrixfederationv1inviteroomideventid)
and [`knock_room_state`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#get_matrixfederationv1make_knockroomiduserid)

> and MUST be a properly-formatted PDU according to that room version's event format specification.

Reviewer 2: +1. It feels really confusing if we now have some "Stripped state events" which are stripped, and some which are not. If we want to change things so that stripped state events are not stripped, then let's do it to *all* the events, and find a different name for them.

(https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#stripped-state defines "Stripped state event" to be "A stripped down state event, with only the `type`, `state_key`, `sender`, and `content` keys")

> and MUST be a properly-formatted PDU according to that room version's event format specification.

Reviewer: Yes, the full PDU is required to be able to calculate the room ID. [Stripped state](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#stripped-state) is not the same as redacted events. Stripped state removes all keys except `type`, `sender`, `state_key` and `content` regardless of any redaction rules, but it doesn't remove anything in content.

> and MUST be a properly-formatted PDU according to that room version's event format specification.

Reviewer 2: I guess the reason we need it to be a full PDU is so that the receiving server can correctly calculate the event hash and make sure it matches the `room_id`, to check that the sending server isn't playing shenanigans. But again, it feels like some of those checks should apply to all the events in `invite_room_state` and `knock_room_state`, so we should probably make this change to all of them. (Do we know why it was specced as "stripped" in the first place?)

> and MUST be a properly-formatted PDU according to that room version's event format specification.

Author: what tulir said^

I'm less confident that we can ship "all events are no longer stripped" quickly, but recognize that is the direction we want to go in. There's also other (undisclosed) work in the area which will make it easier to provide stripped state as full PDUs in the future.

If the `m.room.create` event is not present, not a PDU, or not for the room ID specified, the server

> MUST fail to continue processing the invite or knock. For invites, this is a `400 M_MISSING_PARAM`

Author: afff25ed72eb7b71ee04cbdc22de86c5d4f21114

standard Matrix error (new to the endpoint). For knocks, this means the server drops the `make_knock`
response and never completes a `send_knock`. For both operations, the associated Client-Server API
request is failed with `500 M_BAD_STATE`. A 4xx error isn't used for the Client-Server API because
there's nothing the client can materially do differently to fix that request.

For room versions *not* affected by MSC4291, servers SHOULD include the properly-formatted `m.room.create`
PDU. This is not made mandatory to avoid a situation where servers trust data that shouldn't be trusted
for the reasons described by MSC4291.

To determine whether a room is "affected" by MSC4291, servers MUST inspect the `room_id` rather than
the create event's `room_version`. Specifically, a room ID with a domain component is *not* affected
while one without a domain component (and happens to be `!<43 unpadded urlsafe base64 chars>`) *is*
affected. This is done to ensure the server is not potentially confused by a malicious server providing

> a create event for a different, unaffected, room.

Author: That's what this is saying. In v12 rooms there is no `room_id` on the events, so the server needs to calculate it. The risk is if the server believes the `room_version` field and assumes it's an affected room.

## Alternatives

This proposal fills a potential gap in information created by MSC4291, making the alternatives roughly
equivalent to "don't do this".

## Security considerations

Security considerations are made throughout, especially in areas where an implementation may accidentally
trust data it shouldn't.

## Unstable prefix

This proposal does not require an unstable prefix as the behaviour can be accomplished without overly
affecting client or server implementations.

## Migration

*This section is non-normative for spec writing purposes. It only affects implementations which have
implemented room version 12 upon its release.*

Room version 12 contains MSC4291 and is expected to be used in production prior to this proposal
becoming stable itself. To account for this, servers SHOULD treat "MUST" as "MAY" throughout this
proposal, with the exception of the Client-Server API changes, until 1 full spec release cycle has
passed since this MSC's own release in the specification.

This translates to a timeline anywhere between 2 and 6 months, depending on ecosystem rollout. An
example *possible* release schedule is:

> 1. August 2025 - Matrix 1.16 is released with Room Version 12.
> 2. October 2025 - Matrix 1.17 is released with this proposal; servers use "MAY" keywords.
> 3. January 2026 - Matrix 1.18 is released; servers switch to "MUST" keywords.

Reviewer 2: seems like you are hoping to get this into 1.16, so a more likely schedule is maybe:

```suggestion
1. August 2025 - Matrix 1.16 is released with Room Version 12; servers use "MAY" keywords.
2. October 2025 - Matrix 1.17 is released; servers switch to "MUST" keywords.
```

> Servers MAY switch to "MUST" keywords early if their local ecosystems are prepared for the change.

Reviewer 2: This feels like a hugely confusing way of presenting this. 

> 'SHOULD treat "MUST" as "MAY"'
> 'MAY switch to "MUST"

:exploding_head: 

(also, I think you want some of the MUSTs to be SHOULDs rather than MAYs for the transition period)

Also also, I don't think we've ever had a single MSC that requires changes in two spec versions, and I don't think we have great tooling to manage it.

How about changing the MUSTs to SHOULDs or MAYs, and then following up with a second MSC which changes them all to MUSTs?

Author: I've reworked the section to hopefully be a bit clearer, and avoid uppercase spec-like keywords: bef65403ca2db18160334652a8ec81034737ebc0

impossible when the create event is missing or incomplete, as the room ID cannot be confirmed in
MSC4291+ room versions.

This MSC shifts the `m.room.create` event to a *required* stripped state event, and imposes validation
to ensure the event matches the room. To support the new validation, the `m.room.create` event must
be formatted as a full PDU in the stripped state of [invites](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#put_matrixfederationv1inviteroomideventid)
over federation. This is not applied to other events for reasons described later in the proposal.

[Knocks](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#put_matrixfederationv1send_knockroomideventid)
additionally include the full PDU format, though only to ensure symmetry between the two instances of
stripped state. It's not possible to prevent a knock based on stripped state because the server will
have already sent the knock before stripped state is received.

## Proposal

On the Client-Server API, `m.room.create` MUST be provided in [Stripped State](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#stripped-state),

> where available. No other changes are proposed to the Client-Server API.

Reviewer 2: so, to be clear, under the proposal as it stands, `m.room.create`, would continue to be in the "stripped" format in the CS-API?

Author: clarified in 2104c97e1c1f5f7241c265ec9171bf762a0e67ec

Over federation, for room versions affected by [MSC4291](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4291),
the `m.room.create` event MUST be included in [`invite_room_state`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#put_matrixfederationv1inviteroomideventid)

> and [`knock_room_state`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#put_matrixfederationv1send_knockroomideventid)

Reviewer 2: Why are we only applying this to MSC4291 room versions? Wouldn't it be simpler all round to require it for all rooms? Again, the fact it is there doesn't mean that the recipient has to use it.

Author: answer implied by https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4311#discussion_r2274302179 - the create event cannot be trusted in pre-4291 rooms and therefore should not be presented as trustworthy.

Reviewer 2: I don't really agree. Most of the stuff in `invite_room_state` is "not trustworthy". We're not proposing removing it though.

Author: 2104c97e1c1f5f7241c265ec9171bf762a0e67ec makes it apply to all room versions

and MUST be a properly-formatted PDU according to that room version's event format specification. The
full PDU format is used to ensure that receiving applications can independently verify the room ID

> by calculating the reference hash of the create event themselves.

Reviewer 2: Following on from the [previous thread](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4311#discussion_r2269526101):

Whether or not recipients can make use of the full PDU for other event types, I don't really understand why we don't require that senders send it today? As well as being more consistent, it seems like it would reduce migration pain for the future.

Author: I really don't think we should block the MSC on this. If we send the full PDU, we're saying that it's possible for the receiver to actually validate the data, or worse, implying that it's trusted and requires no verification. To fix this we'd need to send the entire `auth_events` chain for all events, and even then there's *zero* guarantee that the auth chain is complete or current to the invite. This will lead to implementations assuming that the data can be relied upon when in fact it's still highly untrusted. By having "stripped state" be a subset of fields, impossible to verify, we're at least making it clearer to implementations that the data is untrusted and can be falsified.

Solving the above concerns is very possible, but well beyond the scope of this MSC. This MSC deliberately represents the minimum changes required to patch a security issue introduced by room version 12 before v12 ships in the spec. 

Would folks be comfortable letting this MSC continue through the process if a second MSC was published aiming to address the consistency and auth chain concerns?

Author: For clarity: I also want to make the format consistent for all events in the list. It's indeed far from great to have two formats, but I also *really* don't want to delay the spec release behind a technical design which needs significant thought (or worse, is rushed through and hard to fix later).

Reviewer 2: I had a long conversation with Travis out of band about this. As I understand it, his concerns appear to boil down to: by requiring homeservers to provide full PDUs in `invite_room_state`, then implementations may start to consider the state in `invite_room_state` to have been validated, despite admonitions in the spec against that.

Affected implementations could include:
 * Homeservers that have received `invite_room_state`
 * Clients that receive an invite
 * Tooling that interacts with homeservers via implementation-specific interfaces. (For example, some tools look at `unsigned.invite_room_state` in events in Synapse)

To guard against that, Travis believes that, if the full PDUs are there, then the receiving homeserver must validate them. That would require the auth chains to be provided, as well as requiring more substantial changes on the implementation side.

I believe the concern is moot for each of those three classes of implementations, for different reasons:

 * Somebody implementing a homeserver should be in no doubt as to which events have been validated and which have not. 	Synapse, for example, deliberately keeps `invite_room_state` in a very different place to normal events, because it hasn't been validated.

 * Clients are unaffected by this change, since (as clarified in the other thread), events sent over the C-S API will continue to be stripped. There is a "slippery slope" argument here, in which we might forget this discussion, and make the same change in the C-S API, and then clients *will* be affected; but particularly given how strongly this change has been argued I find it very unlikely such a change will slip in under the radar.

 * Tooling that uses implementation-specific interfaces seems to me to be somewhat out of scope for design of the Matrix protocol: rather, it is up to the designers of those implementation-specific interfaces to provide appropriate guardrails. As a concrete example: Synapse could *strip* incoming PDUs in `invite_room_state` *before* storing it in `unsigned`, so that it would be clear to downstream tooling that it has not been validated. I don't think we need to design the federation protocol around this.

   Further: the risk of tooling misinterpreting events in `unsigned.invite_room_state` as verified exists today. Synapse provides very few guarantees about what is there, and it would not be hard for a malicious or mischievous homeserver operator to make an `/invite` request with `invite_room_state` that *looks* like full PDUs (thus tricking tooling), but in fact being bogus. Admittedly that concern grows once it becomes the norm rather than the exception for `invite_room_state` to contain full PDUs, but still, if "tools might misinterpret `unsigned.invite_room_state`" is a genuine concern, then it seems like the solution is better guardrails to Synapse irrespective of this MSC.

Reviewer 2: To conclude: I still feel like Travis's concerns about events "looking trusted" are outweighed by my concerns around (a) inconsistency between event types and (b) [inconsistency between room versions](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4311#discussion_r2273340163).

Author: I spent some time since that discussion drafting up an alternative which didn't use stripped state, primarily to see what the changes might look like. In the end, the changes would have similar misinterpretation concerns (if not worse due to data duplication). Because of this, I'm more inclined to agree that we should just make the jump to using full PDUs for all stripped state, though I still hold the misinterpretation concerns. 

For those interested, I published the alternative at https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4329

Author: 2104c97e1c1f5f7241c265ec9171bf762a0e67ec uses full PDU formats everywhere now

# MSC4311: Ensuring the create event is available on invites and knocks

Historically, when processing an invite or knock, safety tooling would parse the room ID despite
[being opaque](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/appendices/#room-ids) to determine the server which
originally created the room. If that server was considered abusive, the invite/knock may be rejected
or blocked early by the tooling. This approach is preferred because the user sending the invite may
not be on the same server as the user who created the room, but is often still checked by safety

> tooling.

Reviewer 4: I'm not 100% sure on how knocking works, but I think it's more useful to the server that's sending the knock?

> tooling.

Author: clarified in the MSC that this is the outbound knock, not inbound knock.

> tooling.

Author: If the server knocked on a room and got a different create event, it's not knocking on the room it thought it was.

affected. This is done to ensure the server is not potentially confused by a malicious server providing
a create event for a different, unaffected, room.

When a room is affected, the server MUST validate the `m.room.create` event as follows for the purposes
of the above:

1. If the event has a `room_id`, reject.
2. If the event does not otherwise comply with the event format for its self-described room version,
   reject.
3. If the event fails [signature checks](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#validating-hashes-and-signatures-on-received-events),
   reject. The content hash check MAY be skipped as the event can safely be redacted prior to all of
   these checks.
4. If the event's [reference hash](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/server-server-api/#calculating-the-reference-hash-for-an-event)
   does not match the event ID contained in the room ID, reject.
5. Otherwise, allow.

### Client-Server API

Using the same "affected" calculation above, when serving `m.room.create` in [Stripped State](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#stripped-state)
to clients in affected room versions, servers MUST format that event in the same way it would for

> [`GET /rooms/:roomId/event/:eventId`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#get_matrixclientv3roomsroomideventeventid).

Reviewer: The room creation time might be nice to have, although I can't immediately think of use cases like I can for the invite event itself (https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/issues/2138).

The only other benefit I can think of is that it could be used as an indicator for whether the server validated the create event or not, but it might not work reliably for that use case (in case some servers pass through too much information from the remote server currently)

> [`GET /rooms/:roomId/event/:eventId`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#get_matrixclientv3roomsroomideventeventid).

Author: This MSC is primarily intended for moderation tooling. Some tooling may only exist on the client side after a sync has completed, meaning that tooling needs more information about the event than normal (especially in v12 rooms).

It's also just reciprocal: if it's required over federation, then the server can largely pass it straight through instead of stripping it way down.

> [`GET /rooms/:roomId/event/:eventId`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#get_matrixclientv3roomsroomideventeventid).

Reviewer 5: I'd also like some expansion on what extra data clients would gain from this? So long as the create event is verified by the server, the client can trust the creator, etc.

Generally, I'm not a fan of having different formats for different items in a list as it can lead to a confusing and muddled API.

> [`GET /rooms/:roomId/event/:eventId`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.15/client-server-api/#get_matrixclientv3roomsroomideventeventid).

Reviewer: > Generally, I'm not a fan of having different formats for different items in a list as it can lead to a confusing and muddled API.

There already needs to be a different format for the user's member event (which is in the same list as stripped state in /sync) so that clients can tell when an invite was sent (https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/pull/2181)

## Potential issues

* Not using the same format for both affected and unaffected room versions may lead to parser complexity.
  This is considered tolerable by this proposal to ensure that clients (and servers) have limited
  ability to confuse themselves.

* This technique is not applied to other state events present in stripped state. A future MSC or
  series of MSCs is expected to address this particular concern.

* Some server implementations allow safety tooling and other applications to hook into them between
  the Federation API and Client-Server API. Such implementations are encouraged to make the create
  event reasonably available in its full form to those applications. Typically, this will be an internal
  representation of the event which still has the capability to serialize down to a PDU.

* For unaffected room versions, it's a little awkward that the Federation API SHOULD use PDU format,
  but the Client-Server API SHOULD NOT format the event as a real event. This proposal makes this
  choice to give *some* amount of information to intermediary tooling within the server, but can
  easily be modified to be a "SHOULD NOT" for both cases.

> ## Alternatives

Reviewer 6: Is an alternative to the migration approach to rev the API version? I'm unsure it'll help but feels like changing an API is not great.
